[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So if you're in this room and
you beat yourself up everyday
about exercising, and eating
right, and all of that,
start by eliminating the things
that are draining your energy
first.
You'll never be able to
consistently do that until you
have enough room to breathe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
How many people here have
heard about the profession
of coaching?
Or how many people know
what a personal coach is?
OK, just a few of you.
Let me just take a
couple of minutes
to tell you about
the kind of work
that I did that led to
the book so that you have
a context for what
we're going to talk
about today during the workshop.
In a former life--
of course, I have to be
careful saying that here.
In this lifetime,
many years ago,
I was a tax consultant back when
people did tax returns instead
of computers.
Does anybody
remember those days,
where you actually got to
sit with your accountant
for a couple of hours?
Remember that?
Now you just drop
your stuff off,
and the computer does
it in five minutes.
Well, I grew up in
a family business.
My father had started
a business in our home.
And back then, for some
reason, when I was about 15,
I started apprenticing
with my dad.
And I was very
gifted with numbers
and had a very
strong visual memory.
And for some
reason, I don't know
why, I also had a passion
for the IRS tax code.
I was a little nuts as a
kid, and I'm over that now.
But I really did.
I loved doing tax returns.
To me, they were puzzles.
The object of the game was
to get people as much money
back as I legally could.
But I loved to do
the tax returns.
And what I loved most of
all was sitting and talking
with people about their lives.
Because when you do
somebody's tax return,
it's a very intimate experience.
You sit down.
You know how much money
that person makes.
that person spends.
You know how in debt they are.
You know about their
medical history.
religious affiliations.
You know if they've
had any thefts
or losses during the year.
I mean, it's a really
intimate experience,
and you have to really
trust the person
that you're speaking with to
share those kinds of details.
And looking back, I realize
that I learned my most important
coaching skill
back then, and that
was to create a safe
place for people
to tell the truth
about their lives.
Because once they'd
tell the truth,
then we could deal with
the facts and move on.
And many times when clients came
to me with financial questions,
they also had life
questions as well.
When's the best time
to buy a new home?
Can we afford a new home?
And we'd talk about the
fears, and the nervousness,
and the excitement about
getting a new home.
Or when's the best
time to have children?
There were many times
where I had couples sitting
in front of me who were
going through a divorce,
and I had to deal with the
really difficult situation
of handling the delicate
issues of finance and life
with two people that
were really struggling
with ending a relationship.
It was the life planning part
of my work that I really loved,
and the numbers
got kind of boring.
I actually was
skilled at numbers,
but it wasn't where
my passion was.
So I left the--
decided-- I began to
have sort of inklings
that it was time for me
to leave the business.
But I was working like a maniac.
I was a young woman.
I was making a lot of money.
I was working, on
average, 16 hours a week--
16 hours a week, don't I wish--
16 hours a day.
I'd go into work
early in the morning,
especially during tax
season, skip lunch, eat lunch
at my desk really quick,
go through the afternoon,
have a quick bite to eat
for supper in the back room,
and then once again
sit with clients.
And I'm embarrassed to admit
that there were times where
I would be sitting
across from a client,
and I swear I could
have just nodded off
in the middle of a conversation.
I was really exhausted.
The problem was
that I was living
such a work-centered life, work
had become just doing stuff.
Endless to-do lists
had become such a way
of living for me that I
didn't have a personal life
to go home to.
Does that make any
sense to anybody?
Yeah, some real sense.
Right?
And so every time,
I'd think, Cheryl,
you've got to cut this out.
You're headed for burnout.
You need to just stay home.
Take time off.
Well, sure, I'd
schedule a night off.
I'd stay home, and I'd be like--
you know.
I'd be bored.
I'd be uncomfortable.
I'd be cleaning out the kitchen
cabinets looking for something
to do.
I couldn't slow down.
And in December of 1984, I think
it was, I was sound asleep.
And my mother called me,
six o'clock in the morning.
And she said-- she was crying.
And I thought, oh,
someone's died.
I said, Mom, what's the matter?
And all I heard was,
our office is on fire.
I shut down the--
slammed down the phone,
threw on a pair of jeans.
It was freezing out.
I remember I was driving to the
scene scraping my windshield
while I was driving.
I'm lucky I wasn't killed.
And I get to the scene of
where our office building was.
Now, our office was in the
oldest historical business--
oldest historical building
in the town that I lived in.
We had just finished
remodeling, put
lots of thousands of dollars
into remodeling the building.
And when I drove up,
there were TV cameras.
There were people
everywhere, firemen,
and the whole thing was just
totally engulfed in flames.
Now I used to be really
proud of the fact
that I had a street-level office
with windows that looked out
over the street.
I had this big, long,
impressive office.
It was a good thing.
I lived there most of the time.
And now I was standing
on the street looking in,
watching the things that--
my artwork, my desk,
my filing cabinets,
everything just
melting in front of me.
And I remember standing
there and thinking,
you don't know why now,
Cheryl, but this is happening
for a really important reason.
You'll figure it
out at some point
that this event has
the possibility,
has the opportunity to change
your life in a major way.
That thought went in and
out of my mind very quickly.
And then I just remember
running to find my father.
And several days
after the fire as
I was sifting
through the rubble--
I mean, literally.
We just lost the whole building.
As I was sifting
through the rubble,
I found myself sobbing over
things like my adding machine.
We had adding
machines back then.
I was sobbing over
the pencil holder
that was melted into like black
gunk on the top of my desk.
I mean, I was actually pining
for things in my office the way
that one of you might pine for
family photographs in your home
if your home had burnt down.
And I realized in that
moment that my office really
had become my home.
My home was just the
place I went to sleep.
My work had become
my whole life.
Now, I wish I could tell
you that that event was
dawn breaks on marble head, and
I woke up and went, that's it.
I'm out of here.
I'm starting a new life.
But remember when I
said I was standing
in front of the building,
and this little voice said,
you don't know why this
is happening right now,
but it's happening for
an important reason?
I now realize looking back that
that was the voice of my soul.
That was that little
whisper saying,
there is a better way here,
and living a work-centered life
isn't it.
One of the best things I
learned while coaching hundreds
and hundreds of clients
over the last seven years
is that one of the
quickest ways to improve
the quality of your
life dramatically
is to identify and eliminate
the things in your life
that are draining your energy.
As a matter of fact, when I
finished writing the book,
I sat down, and I
said, OK, Cheryl,
what have you learned as a
result of writing this book?
What's the theme or
the lesson that you
think is most important?
And here's what it was.
Now, this might sound
like a simple statement,
but it's actually
pretty profound,
and that is that a high-quality
life has a lot more
to do with what you
remove from your life
than what you add to it.
I'll say that again.
A high-quality
life has a lot more
to do with what you
remove from your life
than what you add to it.
Now, fortunately, at
this point, a lot of us
know coming out of the '80s
that more money, bigger homes,
nicer cars don't make you happy.
I mean, a lot of us on some
level pretty much get that now.
But still in our
society, if we go back
to just the conversation
about technology,
we are so perpetually
outwardly focused.
We're still looking.
Most of us walk
around as though it
feels like something's
missing inside.
How many people feel that way?
You feel a
disconnection, or a void,
or like something's missing?
Only three people in the room?
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
So most people say
that to me, that they
feel this sense
of disconnection,
this longing for something
that they can't put a name to.
Some people call
it a life purpose.
it a relationship.
Some people call get a
connection with the divine.
This lack of meaning
and fulfillment,
although we know that
the cars, and the houses,
and money don't
necessarily fill that void,
we're still looking outside.
And we're looking at what we
can add to our lives when,
in fact, if you were
to do two things--
yes, they get the pens ready.
Two things-- the first
thing is to spend
a significant,
consistent amount of time
reconnecting with
yourself, capital S,
reestablishing a
relationship with yourself,
and then shaping up
the life you already
have by assessing
your relationships,
your environment, your work
situation, your finances,
your health.
Begin to just focus in on
cleaning up, shaping up
the life you already have.
The life you're meant to
live will unfold before you,
and the richness and
the meaning you desire
will start to be an
everyday experience.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's as if there are
cords of energy that
run from us to
everything that is undone
or incomplete in our lives.
So the favorite
dress that you have
in your closet that
needs the buttons-- you
know, you go into the closet.
You go to pull it out,
and you go, oh, darn it.
I forgot to put a
button on that dress.
You put it back in.
Chances are, you say
something to yourself
like, oh, I'm such
an idiot, or when
am I ever going to do that?
You put the dress back in.
You close the closet
door, and it's
as if your life energy just
is like this little cord.
Life energy is going out of
that cord back into the closet.
All right?
Or the car you get into that
either needs to be cleaned out,
or hasn't had an oil change in
a very long time, and you think,
oh--
I know.
You think, oh, god.
This is when the husbands
and wives or the partners
start to look at
each other like,
did you get the oil changed?
Did you?
You get in the car.
You see that it needs
to be cleaned out,
or you remember the oil
hasn't been changed,
and you think, oh, and you
lose a little bit of energy.
The cord suddenly-- you know,
you've got energy going out.
Or the office that
looks like a bomb
went off in it, I
mean, we know that.
Right?
How many people here have
some room in their home
that is so filled with
clutter that you get sort
of nauseous just walking by it.
There.
Now we get the hands up.
Right.
You see, because what happens
is, on an energetic level,
you're losing energy
to that clutter.
And it's not just when
you're standing in the room.
Right?
I bet if I gave you--
if we did a little
like three-second
visualization where
I asked you to
imagine that room,
you'd start to feel drained.
Right?
Exactly.
So we're losing energy.
And we lose energy on an
emotional, a spiritual,
a physical, and intellectual
level all at once.
So the bigger the energy
drain, the bigger the loss.
Let's say, for
example, this gentleman
over here talked
about being connected
to things in your past.
You know, Carolyn Myss
has done a wonderful job
of talking about, where
is your energy going?
Bring it back into
the present time.
Right?
Let's imagine that
you've recently had
a relationship that's ended.
And it didn't end
the way you wanted
it to end for whatever reason.
That's like a pipe
running from you
to the past to
that relationship.
Or if you felt like
you were done wrong
by a boss or something like
that, those kinds of things,
the tax returns
that are unfiled,
that's a huge pipe running
from you to the taxes.
So if, in fact,
when we're born--
I like to think of it this way.
When we're born, we
have a full tank of gas.
By the time we reach 20, 30,
40, it's no wonder many of us
can even walk around because
the tank is way below a quarter,
I'm sure.
So the way to begin to bring
the energy back into your body
is to start to identify and
eliminate the things that
are draining your energy.
And when you do that,
interesting things
start to happen.
You see, my basic
coaching philosophy
when I was working
with clients as I began
to develop a private practice,
my basic coaching philosophy
was one of extreme self-care,
a concept that I was introduced
to by my first coach,
Thomas Leonard,
who was a man who
had amazing ability
to take good care of himself
in ways I thought was obscene.
I was a yes woman.
He was the no man.
You could say to me,
Cheryl, could you-- yes.
You didn't even have
to tell me what it was.
I'd say yes.
I'd offer my help to strangers.
I felt drained a
lot of the time,
whereas if Thomas were
on the phone with you
and he decided he didn't want
to talk anymore, he'd say,
I'm done.
Bye.
He just had this
ability to just say no.
Well, it's not that
I'm advocating that.
I'm not advocating either end.
But I really needed to come
and find some kind of a place
in the middle in order
to restore my energy
and restore my life.
So interesting
things would happen
as I begin to identify
the kinds of things
that were draining my energy.
I tried little experiments
like, for example,
when I was developing my
coaching practice, I'd think,
oh, I'd really love to
add a couple of clients
to my practice.
Well, instead of going out to
a formal networking meeting
and passing the business cards,
which I hated and did not
want to do, I'd clean
out a filing cabinet,
and a new client would
show up that afternoon.
Now, at first.
I thought, oh, yeah, this is
like some kind of coincidence.
But then all of a
sudden, I don't know,
I'd get the urge to clean
out a closet in my home,
go through, get rid of
everything I no longer needed.
And suddenly two
clients would show up
or a new relationship
would come into my life.
I'd meet a new friend, someone
that I really connected
with and really liked.
Well, as I began to
practice with clients doing
the same thing, amazing things
began to happen in their lives
as well.
As they started to
eliminate the things that
were draining their energy, the
things that they most wanted
would start showing
up in their lives.
It was almost like the old
saying, nature abhors a vacuum.
Well, as they made
the space and then sat
with that space for a while,
higher quality events,
experiences, people, and things
would start to move forward.
And not only that,
but as these people
focused on just eliminating
stuff from their lives,
it was as if their
natural gifts and talents
rose to the surface.
So you can almost
think of it this way.
Imagine that when
we're born, each of us
represents a unique,
beautiful painting.
Let's pretend this
is the painting
because I love flowers, and
they look beautiful here.
So when each of us
are born, we have
this unique, beautiful
painting called "You."
Right?
Everybody's painting
is different.
And as you start to
grow up, that painting
gets covered with dirt,
and dust, and muck,
and all that kind of stuff.
For example, the
siblings come along.
And one day, your
brother pulls your hair
and goes, oh, you're a jerk.
And it's like somebody throws
a tomato on the painting.
Right?
And as you get older,
you go into school.
And we all know how
tough kids can be.
Right?
And little Johnny
in the schoolyard
hits little Mary in the face,
and it's as if someone just
threw dirt on Mary's painting.
She starts to close down a bit.
Things start to get covered.
Well, think about it.
Then we go into high school.
Forget it.
It's like, everyday, tomatoes
are going on the painting.
Dirt's going on the painting.
We have relationships,
difficult relationships,
with significant others,
with friends, with bosses.
And it's as if there's
just more stuff.
Then we talk about the clutter.
We start collecting
everything because we're
sure we're going to need it.
Right?
We keep those piles of magazines
because we can't possibly
throw them away until we
go through every single one
of them.
Right?
More stuff just gets like
piled up on this painting.
Well, by the time
you reach adulthood,
it's no wonder you
don't know who you are
and what you came here to do.
So instead, what we do,
because we feel that void,
we feel the disconnection
from that beautiful painting
that we were when we came
here, what most of us
do is we think,
oh, well, if I just
find the right relationship,
then I'll feel better.
So what do we do?
We go out and start
dating or marrying
those people that actually
are engaging in the gifts that
are hidden under that painting.
Right?
Well, let's say that you were--
I don't know--
let's say that you
were very gifted with painting.
You find yourself falling in
love with artists all the time
because our soul
will do whatever
it can to get expressed.
Sometimes it has
a sense of humor,
and sometimes it does things
that we wouldn't expect.
But we're always trying to--
because we're perpetually
looking outward,
we're saying, OK, now
what else can I bring
into my life to help reveal?
OK, I'm going to go
hire a career counselor,
and then they'll tell
me what my purpose is.
Or I'm going to
hire a consultant,
and they'll tell me.
Or I'm going to hire a
coach, and then they'll
tell me what it is I'm
supposed to do-- when
the key to determining
who you are
and what your unique
talents and gifts are
is to simply start
cleaning the painting off.
Start getting rid of
the piles of stuff,
perusing your environment
and starting to clean it up,
either transforming or
eliminating the relationships
that are draining your energy,
cleaning out the office,
getting the car
handled, hiring people
to do the stuff you
don't want to do,
or bartering if you can't
afford it in the beginning.
And each time you do that, each
time you start getting stuff
handled-- you go
through your wardrobe.
You get rid of all the
clothes you no longer use,
even the ones that
you're sure you're
going to fit into someday.
That stuff drains
your energy big time.
You just start getting
rid of all that stuff.
And little by little,
the tomatoes and the dirt
start coming off that painting.
And not only do you suddenly
discover your unique talents
and gifts, but-- here's
the important part--
you engage a divine
force that will
support your efforts in moving
forward, whether you believe it
or not.
Because one of the
things I've learned
is that when we practice
extreme self-care, when we start
to shape up the
life we already have
and take care of the things
that are important to us,
it's as if we send a direct
message, a direct line
to the divine,
however you define it,
that you're paying
attention and that you're
going to honor your soul
and do something about it.
So very interesting
things happen.
For example, I was working
with one client who had--
he had $15,000 worth of debt.
And he said to me, you
know, I am so sick and tired
of being drained by this debt.
I walk around with it on
my shoulders all the time.
I may not think about
it all the time.
But, boy, just one little
mention of money, and, boom,
it's right there, and I
start to feel anxious.
So he said, I'm tired of
this draining my energy.
I'm going to handle it.
I'm going to dedicate
the next year of my life
to eliminating the $15,000.
So this is a single man.
He went out.
He decided to get himself
a part-time job, and said,
I'm going to put all the
money from my part-time job
towards the debt.
I said, great.
We worked together on
a week-to-week basis
to make sure that he was
doing exactly what he
said he was going to do.
And at the end of the
year, he paid off $8,000
of the $15,000 worth of debt.
So he had 7,000 left.
He did a great job.
One month later, an
extended family member
passed away and left him money.
Guess how much
money he was left?
>> $7,000.
Now, once again, most
people would say,
what a magical coincidence.
But from where I
look, having seen
it happen hundreds of times
in the lives of my clients,
receiving all the
faxes and the emails
that I get from people
who have read the book
or who have done this kind
of work, saying, you know,
you're right.
It works.
I know that that's
that engagement
of that divine power supporting
your efforts to clean up
your life.
So let's start by having you
identify some of your energy
drains, so then we can talk
about, how do you handle it?
And what do you do if you have
clutter all over the place,
and you think, but I can't
part with that information,
or I can't part with
those magazines,
or I'm afraid to
let this stuff go.
How are we going to deal
with those kinds of things?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Let's start by having you
identify some of your energy
drains, so then we can talk
about, how do you handle it?
And what do you do if you have
clutter all over the place,
and you think, but I can't
part with that information,
or I can't part with
those magazines,
or I'm afraid to
let this stuff go.
How are we going to deal
with those kinds of things?
So let's start by I'm
going to give you a little
"what's draining you" test.
This is where you're going
to need a paper and a pen.
The object of the
game is to come up
with 10 things that are
draining your energy--
no more than 10, not 11, not 12.
I remember I had one
woman I was working with.
She faxed me a list of 60 things
that were draining her energy.
I said, no wonder you
can't get anything done.
I'd be overwhelmed
with this list as well.
So, number 1 through 10.
And what I'd like
to do is I'm going
to give you some examples.
I'm going to throw
out some examples
of the kinds of things that
often drain people's energy.
And if one feels-- if one
sort of makes you-- let's see.
If one appeals to
you-- well, no, that's
the wrong word because none
of these will appeal to you.
So cancel that.
But if you can identify
with one, write it down.
And I especially want
you to write down
the one that makes
you go, oh, I don't
want to write that one down.
That's the one I definitely
want you to write down.
So first, we're going to
look at relationships.
There are people in my life who
continuously drain my energy.
So I want you to think, is
there someone in your life
that's draining your energy?
If so, write their name
down, unless, of course,
they're sitting next to you.
Don't do that.
Write somebody else's name
down, or a little code name,
or something.
I have unreturned
phone calls, emails,
or letters that
need to be handled,
the kinds of things that
are weighing on your mind
like, oh, I really have
to write to Aunt Mary.
It was over a month ago, and
she probably hates me now.
I feel a void in my life of
either a significant other
or friendships.
That, too, can
drain your energy.
You know, you're walking
around feeling lonely, wishing
that you had a
partner in your life.
It's siphoning off
energy all the time.
There's a relationship in
my life that I need to end.
That's a big energy drain.
I remember I was working with
a gentleman, a doctor, who
had had a practice.
And he had hired me
because his practice
started to really dwindle.
And during the course
of our coaching work
together, he kept talking about
this woman that he was dating,
and how unhappy he was.
And they were always fighting,
and it wasn't working out.
And now and then,
he'd say, you know,
I really just need to
end this relationship.
And I would just
mirror that back.
You know, you keep
talking about that a lot.
And you keep saying you want
to end this relationship.
You might need to consider it.
Well, as time went
on, I sort of was
planting the seed, mirroring
back what I was hearing.
As time went on, it
became very clear
that the relationship
was definitely
impacting his business.
And I remember one time
sitting in his office.
We were doing a
coaching session.
And I said to him--
I'll call him Sam.
I said, Sam, it's time for
you to end this relationship.
If you don't, this relationship
is going to kill your business.
I remember he kind
of stepped back
a little bit when I said it.
Because, you know, that's the
hardest thing in the world
to do is to end a relationship.
But this is something
he had been telling me.
So I said, look, you do
whatever you need to do.
You get whatever support you
need-- therapist, friend,
support group, whatever--
to get this handled.
Otherwise, you're going
to lose your business.
It took him three months.
He put some support in
place, ended the relationship
three months later.
And his business increased
by 50% within 30 days--
50% within 30 days.
It was amazing.
Imagine what a huge pipe
that was taking energy.
All of a sudden, he cuts it
off and handles it-- and, boom,
all this energy.
Remember, we're talking about
energy on multiple levels here.
It's not just physical energy.
It's on psychic, intellectual,
spiritual, and emotional energy
as well.
So there's a phone call I dread
making, and it's causing me
stress and anxiety--
another big energy drain.
Or for some people,
under relationships,
feeling as though
you miss being part
of a loving and
supportive community,
that can also be
an energy drain.
What about your environment?
What's the shape
of your car like?
Does it need to be
cleaned out or repaired?
Are you driving around on
bald tires, dreading winter?
What about your wardrobe?
Does it need to be
updated, gone through?
Are there alterations
that need to be done?
Are you living in a geographic
location that you love?
Another big energy
drain-- many times,
clients would come to me saying,
my soul wants to be in Arizona,
and I'm living in Maine.
You're going to be
living in conflict a lot
until you get your
soul to Arizona.
And the minute you
tell the truth about it
and say, OK, I'm
going to listen,
doors are going to open up.
So that's another energy drain.
Are there appliances
that need repair
or upgrading in your home?
Is your home decorated in a
way that nurtures your soul?
Is there any maybe a
room or your whole home
where you walk in and
you think, you know,
I just don't like being here.
A lot of times the reason people
don't spend time in their homes
is because it's not a
soul-nurturing place,
so they keep going
out somewhere else.
And then we have the
closets, and the basements,
and the piles of paper.
Are there closets in your home
that need to be cleaned out?
Is there a closet--
I know when we were growing
up-- my mother would kill me
if she knew I was saying this.
But I'm the oldest
of seven children,
and we had the junk closet.
Did anyone ever
have junk closets?
I know everybody
has junk drawers.
We had a junk closet.
And it was a huge
walk-in closet.
And I swear, we would
walk by, open the door,
throw stuff in, and then
shut the door really quick,
and never look inside.
Do you know that there's
still stuff there
from like 20 years ago?
I don't know if people
even look in it anymore.
And they live in the same house.
But how many of you
have those junk drawers?
And you open it up, and you're
always searching for things.
And you think,
one of these days,
I'm going to clean
this thing out.
It's taking your energy.
What about body,
mind, and spirit?
Eating-- I eat food
that's not good for me.
Now the reason that
drains your energy is
because how many
people in this room
have ever put some kind
of food in their mouth
and then beat themself
up for it afterwards?
That's a big energy drain,
a huge energy drain.
It's been too long since
I've been to the dentist.
That was one of the
most common items
on clients' procrastination
lists when I was coaching.
Fear of a dentist
kept people away.
But it also stopped
people from smiling.
And every time somebody
would look at someone
with a nice smile,
they'd be reminded.
And they'd think, oh, I
need to go to the dentist.
And they'd start
beating themselves up.
And that's when you
start losing the energy.
I do not get the sleep that
I need to feel fully rested.
Is a lack of sleep
draining your energy?
I'd like to exercise
regularly, but I never
seem to find the time.
Is there a health concern
that needs your attention
that you're ignoring?
There are books that
I'd love to read,
but I never have
the time for them.
How many people
in this room have
a stack of books by their
bed that they can't get to?
Then at the very
least, do me a favor.
Get the stack away
from your bed.
Because the moment
you open your eyes,
you kick in your adrenaline,
the adrenal system that
says, that reminds you, oh,
I gotta get to these books,
or when am I--
do you know what I mean?
You must have that experience
where you look at the books
and you think,
one of these days.
Right?
One of these days I'm
going to get to them.
They're draining your energy.
Get them away from your
bed at the very least.
Or I lack a spiritual or
religious practice in my life.
A lot of people nowadays
are saying that they
long for a spiritual community.
And that longing
drains your energy.
Then we might look at work.
My work is stressful, and
it leaves me exhausted
at the end of the day.
How many people are in
jobs that they can't stand?
Right, right.
Big, big energy drain--
that's the pipe, definitely.
My office is disorganized.
My desk is a mess, and I have
trouble finding what I need.
And even if you don't have
trouble finding what you need,
the clutter is still
draining your energy.
I'm avoiding a confrontation
or a conflict at work--
draining your energy.
Here's a big one,
especially with men.
I'm not computer literate,
or I'm computer phobic,
and it gets in the way
of my productivity--
another energy drain.
And then, finally, we'll finish
with the favorite topic, money.
I pay my bills late.
That might be an energy drain.
I haven't balanced my
checkbook in 27 years.
I'm clueless about
how much money I have.
I don't have a plan for
my financial future.
People will say
things like, I've
got my money sitting
in a bank, and I
know I'm getting 3% interest.
And I keep meaning to
find a financial planner
or to find a better
place to put my money,
and I haven't done it.
That's draining your energy.
How many people here
need to get a will done?
Draining your energy, that's
right, especially if you fly.
My credit rating is not
what I'd like it to be.
Lots of clients, in the
privacy of our coaching calls,
would share the
shame or the fear
they have about looking
at their credit report
because of how they spent money
as kids, as younger people.
I'm getting older.
I call 25-year-olds "kids."
Oh, my gosh.
And then things like, I do
not have adequate insurance
coverage.
Stuff like that can
also be an energy drain.
So those are just
some examples for you.
And what I'd like
you to do is I'm
going to give you a
few minutes, if you
have any spaces left out of
the 10, to fill in the blanks.
Think about those
things that consistently
seem to be on your mind.
And this is one time where I
want you to use your brain.
I want you to think
about the kinds of things
that you keep
procrastinating about
that you know finally need
to get handled, and fill
in your list of 10.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
With the magazines-- OK, I'm
going to give you my fax number
too.
I love this one
with the magazines.
You take all those 50 magazines.
And you say, OK, I know this
is making me kind of nervous.
And I thought I was
going to read them.
And I'm sure that there's
something in there
that I really needed to see.
Right?
That's not true.
Take them all.
Stick them in your car.
Find an hour.
Go to the local gym.
Drop off a few at the gym.
Gyms love magazines.
Go to a local doctor's office.
Drop off some.
Of course, it depends on the
kinds of magazines they are.
Yeah, I know.
You're smiling at me here.
[LAUGHS]
No, I'm kidding.
Don't worry, Paul.
Everything's fine.
Libraries will take magazines.
What other places take
magazine-- nursing homes,
hospitals.
What?
>> Schools.
>> Laundry mat.
>> Recycling centers.
>> Recycling, laundry mats--
another great place.
You see, then you
can feel productive.
Oh, good.
I just got rid of
all the magazines,
and I didn't throw them away.
I let them be used again.
And they do get used
at these places.
Here's what's important to know.
Sometimes we hold onto
stuff in our lives
because we're afraid of what
will happen in our lives
when we let go.
>> Right.
>> I have a sense that might
be what's going on here.
So you get what support,
whatever support,
you need so that you
can let go of this.
You see, it's not
about magazines.
It's just symbolic.
And when you're ready
with support in place,
when you pick those magazines
up, and you let them go--
that's right.
Just keep breathing.
When you pick them up and
let them go-- everybody
keep looking at me.
Thank you-- and you let
them go, you're right.
You're letting go of something.
And you're making the way for
something new and wonderful
to come into your life.
Make sure you get
support when you do it.
And that's true for
a lot of people.
A lot of us hold on
to stuff because we
know on some level our lives
would change dramatically
if we started letting go.
But, you know, unless you're
absolutely blissfully thrilled
with where you are
right now, it's
a good direction to move in.
OK?
Here's my homework if
you're willing to take
on the challenge.
I'd like you to devote
a 30-day period,
preferably the next 30 days, but
because you didn't know I was
going to do this, I'll let you
off the hook a little bit--
a 30-day period where you'll
handle the items on your list
once and for all.
Now, make sure that
the items on your list
aren't overwhelming, like, for
example, number one can't be,
my whole house is a disaster
area, and I need to handle it.
Number two is, my whole
office is a disaster.
It might be that
your whole list of 10
has just to do with your house.
Bedroom needs to be cleaned.
Kitchen cabinet
needs to be cleaned.
Closet needs to be cleaned.
You see what I mean?
Make them into doable,
practical steps.
We want to build
on success here.
And what I want you to
do is, over the next 30
days or 30-day period,
handle these items.
And start to pay
attention to what shows up
in your life as a result of it.
Now, here's the way you're
going to handle the items.
You ready?
The first way to handle
the items on the list
is to look at the
items that only
you can do, and just do it.
Now, be careful about that.
Yes.
The first method of handling the
items on the list is to do it.
Those are the ones
that only you can do.
Only you can go to
the doctors if you
need to have a health
concern taken care of.
It would be great if we could
send our teeth to the dentist,
but although I suppose
some people could.
But those are the kinds of
things we need to do ourselves,
going to the dentist.
It might be that you've
got some paperwork
that you need to go through.
You need to go
through it, but you
might want someone to
support you while you do it,
maybe a friend who's really
good at throwing things out
so you can get through it.
OK.
So the items on your
list are just do it.
I would challenge
you to only put
the letter D next to
those items that only
you can absolutely do.
And if there is anyone
that's questionable,
feel free to raise your
hand, and we'll look at a way
that someone else can do it.
So put a D next to all of those
items that you have to do.
Now, the second way to
handle the items on your list
is my personal favorite, and
that is hire someone to do it.
If you can't afford it,
you can barter, just
like this woman upfront said.
She's going to contact
someone and barter with them.
I've had plenty of
clients who never balance
their checkbook who are
massage therapists, let's say,
who will barter a massage
for somebody handling
all of their bills.
I think it's brilliant.
I'm a big believer in
delegating out your weaknesses.
Too many of us try to build
our weaknesses into strengths.
We don't have time for that.
Delegate those out, and just
stick with the strengths
you already have.
So hire someone else to do it.
If you've got piles
of paper that you
know you need to get rid
of, hire somebody to come in
and sit with you, or
barter with a friend.
Pick a friend who's
really well-organized,
and loves to throw
things away, and loves
to make little files and
little sectional things.
Invite them over.
Have a pizza party or something.
And have them just help you get
completely organized-- doing
complete work, by the way.
No half jobs here.
Remember, this is about getting
this list of 10 completed.
So if you're in
this room and you're
somebody, for example, who's
feeling drained because you're
not balancing your
checkbook or you're not
paying your bills on time,
look at those things.
And ask yourself,
realistically, is this something
I'm really going to do?
Well, let's see.
It's been 15 years, and
I still haven't done it.
Chances are the answer is no.
Then go out and hire
someone else to do it.
Because what will happen is
having somebody else handle
those kinds of financial
things, as an example,
sends a message
to your wise self
that you're a good
steward for more money,
and it actually opens
the door to abundance.
Let that be your motivation.
And the third method
for handling the energy
drains is also a favorite of
mine, and that is "chuck it."
When in doubt, throw it out.
And this is where the
magazines come into play.
Magazines, catalogs, here's
what you do with magazines.
You see, part of the
reason we hold on to them
is we place a lot
of value on them.
People place a lot
of value on catalogs.
Remember, catalog
companies spend
millions of dollars
making those catalogs look
so beautiful that you
feel guilty throwing them
in the trash.
They do that for a reason.
What do people do?
They put them by the
toilet in the bathroom.
They hang onto them
for a long time.
And they figure
there's a good chance
you'll look through them one day
and order something, finally.
So it's the when in
doubt, throw it out.
I love that mantra.
I keep that mantra in my head.
I live with it.
I'm the kind of
person where you go
to the post office and
my post office box,
and I get all the mail.
I play this little
game with myself.
How much paper can I get
rid of before I come home?
I open all the envelopes.
I throw all the envelopes away.
I breeze through the catalogs.
I go, nope, nothing here, put
them in the recycling bin.
And I can have a
whole stack of mail
and go home with like
five little pieces.
It's the same thing with the
mail that comes into my home.
Catalogs, if I don't buy
anything out of them,
I save them in a basket, hand
the basket to my assistant,
and say, call them,
and cancel me.
I don't even want
to look at them.
It bugs me.
Stuff in my life bugs me.
It took me a while
to get to that point.
And by the way, my very first
experience of doing that
was when I had a four-drawer
filing cabinet chock-filled
with stuff in my office.
And one day, I got so fed
up with all the crap that I
took a drawer out, just took
one drawer out at a time,
dumped it into
green garbage bags.
I didn't even look
at the stuff--
didn't even look, took it out,
dumped it into garbage bags.
Now, I didn't take
them downstairs
to the rubbish place.
I stuck them in my car.
I drove to a friend's
business, asked
to use the dumpster because
I knew I'd go through it if I
left it outside.
Right?
And I felt totally--
I felt like a new woman.
I was like, oh, my god.
I felt all this energy
come back into my body.
I was giddy.
And then a week later,
a client calls, says,
we'd like to hire you for
a consulting assignment--
that had to do with
exactly one of the filing
cabinet drawers,
everything that was in it.
But you know what?
I'm still here to talk about it.
I didn't die.
Nothing happened.
So I had to do a
little extra work.
And that's back before
we had the internet.
Now we've got the internet.
Everything you could ever
want to know in the world
is on the net.
So when in doubt, throw it out.
So the three ways are do
it, hire it, or chuck it.
Put a little C next to any
of the items on your list
that you need to
just get rid of.
And by the way,
sometimes those items
are great ideas,
goals, or projects
that we keep on our to-do
list even though we've
outgrown them, but we think we
should keep them on our list.
Just get rid of them.
So remember I said
in the beginning
that as you begin to handle the
items on just this list alone,
you really do ignite
a divine power,
some kind of a magical force
that will support your efforts.
I don't know.
You might find that on
your item is that you
need to get your car repaired.
And you leave here.
And on Monday, you go
to the post office,
and you bump into
an auto mechanic.
Out of the blue, somebody--
you go to a party.
And somebody introduces you
to the exact same person
you need to help you move
forward with your list.
Pay attention for those things.
Those kinds of
coincidences, if you will,
those kinds of miracles
is the divine's way
of telling you that it's
supporting your effort
to honor your soul.
So isn't it kind
of funny to think
that you can empty
a filing cabinet,
and that's sort of
like practicing--
that's like meditation.
One of the ways we can honor
our spiritual well-being
is by throwing
out the magazines.
I mean, that's what happens.
When I wrote the
book, the area that I
did a lot of speaking and
work in was work-life balance.
And I live with
an inner conflict.
Quite honestly, there's a
part of me that longs-- well,
let me ask.
How many people here
have the fantasy
of the cabin in the woods?
Everybody, right.
Because in this day and
age, we're living at a time
where there's the creative,
bright part of us that
loves the technology, and
the information, and TV,
and all of the stuff that
we can now engage in,
the options that we have
that our parents never had.
And that's fast.
That's fast-moving stuff.
But then there's the
other part that longs
for deeper connections with
others, longs for a deeper
connection with
ourself especially,
longs to live an authentic life
based on who we really are.
It's a slower rhythm.
You and I can't get
to know each other
by talking fast and having
a five-minute conversation.
It doesn't work.
We've got to hang out together.
We have to spend time.
And so a lot of us
are feeling like, uh.
I mean, I feel like
this every now and then,
where I just think,
what's it all for?
When's it going to stop?
Many, many people
will say to me, well,
you know, I go about my life.
And I think, well, once I get
the dishes in the dishwasher,
then I'm going to
stop and relax.
Right?
Or, you know, once I get
the kids to bed, then
I'll be able to relax.
Or when I just return
this one more email,
then I'll finally
let myself relax.
But the truth is, the inbox
of life doesn't empty.
There's always one
more thing to do.
And so it ends up feeling
like, what isn't draining?
You know, I actually think--
I mean, here's the truth, based
on my experience personally
and in working with thousands of
people, that the truth is this.
What matters most is
what you do every day
to connect with your soul.
And it's not just meditation.
It's journaling.
It's going out with
yourself-- not to a movie
where you're looking
out, but walking
in the woods where
you're reflecting in,
where you do
something consistently
every day to connect
with your soul.
Because as you do
that, you begin
to let go of some of
the stuff in your life.
You won't need as many
people in your life.
You won't need a huge home.
You'll probably
want to buy a Honda.
Just kidding.
I'm kidding.
Do you know what I mean?
Like at this point in my life,
when I start to feel stressed,
the very first thing
I do is say, OK,
what do I need to
let go of in my life?
That's the question.
That's my default question.
Anytime I feel drained
at all, it's like, OK,
what do I need to let go of?
You look at, what are
the yeses in my life?
What are the things
I want to hold onto?
And you start saying
no to the noes that
are very obvious noes.
You know, you're exhausted.
You need to go to bed.
Your friend Mary calls
and says, hey, you
want to go out to dinner?
And you go, I can't.
I'm exhausted.
That's like an obvious no.
As you upgrade the
quality of your life
and as you start to
let go of things,
you're going to
have to get really
good at sitting with the wanting
even when you want something.
In other words, you're going
to start having to make choices
out of a series of yeses,
So that there are times
where if I'm feeling
stressed or overwhelmed,
and I think,
OK, what do I need to
let go of, sometimes
some of the things
I need to let go of
are things that are
important to me,
but they're not as
important as other things.
And I let them go with a sense
of, oh, I hate to do that or--
you know?
It's sort of like when
a friend calls you.
You've had a long day.
You're coming home.
And you think, oh, I'm
going to get in a hot tub
and just relax.
And your best friend calls and
says, I just got the night off.
You want to go out for sushi?
And you think, oh, I'd love to
do that, but I'm really tired.
And all of a sudden, you
have that pull going inside.
You know what I'm talking about?
Well, that's where we
have to learn to stop
and say, OK, wait a second.
You close your eyes.
You take a deep breath.
You check in with your soul.
And you say, what would be
honoring my extreme self-care
in this situation?
And your soul says
either sushi or bath.
And if the soul says
bath, you go, OK.
Now it doesn't mean you can
give up the sushi very easily.
You might go, oh,
I hate to do it,
but I really have to do this.
And we have to get good
at doing that so we
can get a lot of the
stuff out of our lives
so that we don't feel like
everything is draining.
Because I'm here
to tell you that I
live a life that doesn't feel
like everything's draining me.
There are some
days when it does.
But the point is, how quickly
do you respond to that?
So you're going to leave here.
And what matters most to
me is that when you leave,
you take some kind of
a different action.
You take action on this list.
Because if not, we've
just had a pleasant chat
for the last hour and a half.
That means less to
me than what you do
with this after you leave here.
Because what I care more
about is having all of you
improve the quality of
your lives in some way.
That's the work I
came here to do.
Help me out here, all right, by
doing something when you leave.
As your life starts to change
and the magic starts to happen,
people may call you lucky.
Clients often smile when their
friends and family tell them
that they must have been born
under a lucky star because
of all the magical coincidences
that just seem to happen.
But the truth is, anyone
can be lucky if they're
willing to do the work.
If you're willing to let go,
the life you were meant to live
will unfold before you.
Thank you all very, very much.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]